BEFORE STARTING

Display the disclaimer: All characters are 18+

Show the menu, play Papers please Menu theme.

Start the game:

[SHOW PRE-DICTATOR BACKGROUND IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE]

MC: "Bye, Sis! Bye Mom! I'll let you know when I get to RVDS!"

Mom: "Do you have everything with you? Want me to pack you a lunch for the journey?"

MC: "No Mom, I'll be fine!"

Mom: "Did you pack your underwear? Do you have your card? Things are very different in RVDS, you know! The people can be very rude and-"

MC: "Mom, I said I'll be fine! I'll ask you if I need any help with anything."

[LOOPY WAVING SPRITE]

Loopy: "You better reply to my texts every day, Onii-chan! Or else I'll come over and kick your butt!"

I knelt down and pat my sister's head. She may be small, but she certainly packed a punch. I saw myself missing her a lot, and despite the harrassment she gave me, I knew that she would miss me too.

MC: "I'll get you a souvenir when I come back to visit you. You better behave and listen to mom! Or I'll be the one kicking you!"

Loopy grinned as I stood back up, but I could see that she was fighting back tears. She would never forgive me if I saw her cry, so I took the chance to finally leave my family behind and start a new life.

That was almost 4 years ago. My sister is 18 now, Chitantopia has closed it's borders, and my life is at a dead end.

[BACKGROUND IS RVDS]

After moving to RVDS, I managed to find work as a journalist reviewing anime.

But ever since the leader went into hiding, the entire nation went into decline, and soon the company I wrote for went under.

With my job gone and rampant crime ravaging the streets, I decided to finally return to my homeland.

[BACKGROUND IS TRAIN]

As I made my way back to Chitantopia, I realised how difficult this entire decision would be.

First of all, contact with my sister completely ceased 2 years after I left.

[BACKGROUND: NEWSPAPERS]

It was all over the news: 'Military Coup Overthrows Queen of Chitantopia'.

After that, the borders were closed and restricted to Chitantopians only, and all contact with the outside world was cut off.

I still held my passport, so getting back in shouldn't be a problem.

Still, reading that article in the news naturally made me worried about my family and friends back home, but I figured that they would be able to handle everything on their own.

My sister wasn't a girl to be messed with, after all!

[BG BORDER]

 After an hour long train ride, I found myself standing in front of Border Control.

I double checked the station I was on.

This is Chitantopia, right?...

Why did it look like this? Did it really change this drastically after only 4 years?

[BG: BORDER CONTROL]

 I walked up to the man checking the passports. Nobody else was around, and it looked like I was the only person checking in the entire day.

Border control dude: "Papers please."

MC: "Sure, here."

I handed over my passport.

BC dude: "You a journalist, huh?"

MC: "Ex-Journalist. I left the company."

The man in the booth stared me down. I wasn't surprised. An isolated country like Chitantopia wouldn't take too kindly to people who's careers were to snoop around.

BC dude: "You recognise this guy?"

I look at the photo he gave me. Of course I recognised him, he was the world's most wanted terrorist, Welkin.

Of course, I wasn't going to tell him that.

MC: "Never seen him before."

BC guy: "Alright. Entry into Chitantopia approved, cause no trouble."

He stamped my passport and handed it back to be.

BC guy: "Look into the camera."

I looked into the camera facing me, and waited for it to take a photo.

After a blinding flash, I turned back to the man in the booth.

BC guy: "Welcome home. We will be keeping an eye on you."

I nodded at the man and picked up my suitcase, looking over at the distant skyscrapers, which definitely weren't there 4 years ago.

[BG: BORDER]

I took out my phone, but it looked like the internet was blocked. Thankfully, the map still worked.

I walked over to the nearest bus stop by the border and waited for the next bus to arrive.

"I guess the first step is to see Loopy again..."

[Fade To Title:

CHITANTOPIA: THE OFFICIAL VISUAL NOVEL]

[Play Papers Please theme]

[BG: OUTSIDE HOUSE]

This… is my house…. Right?

I paused for a moment, thinking back to my memories.

The layout was similar, the street name was the same… So why did it seem so alien?

I sheepishly walked up to the front door and knocked.

[PLAY KNOCK SOUND]

After a few minutes I could hear a pair of footsteps make their way to the entrance, and I took a deep breath to face whoever was at the door.

[PLAY DOOR OPENING SOUND]

[SHOW LOOPY SPRITE WITH STRAIGHT FACE]

Loopy: “Jeez… I already completed my State Survey-”

The girl froze and looked at me, giving me a scan over with her piercing purple eyes.

Loopy: “Onii-chan?! Is that really you?! I can’t believe it!”

I could feel the the air escape from my lungs as my sister practically threw herself at me.

[CG? LOOPY HUG]

MC: “N-Nice to see you too… Could you maybe give me some breathing room?”

Loopy: “No way! I haven’t hugged you in years! This one is to make up for it!”

I sighed, waiting for my sister to let go of me.

I looked down at her, the familiar scent of her favourite shampoo brought back memories.

MC: “You know, you were tiny when I saw you last. Now look at you! You’re all grown up!”

Loopy finally pulled away and gave me a cheeky grin.

Loopy: Heheh… I was afraid you weren’t going to recognise me at first!”

My sister then headed back into the house, opening the door wider to let me in.
Loopy: “Come on in! We have so much to catch up on!”

[BG: LIVING ROOM]

And so, I caught up with my sister.

We talked about many things, about how Mom and Dad were working in the government, about how Loopy lives by herself, and about my job.

[SPRITE: LOOPY IDLE SMILE]

Loopy: “Wow, I bet you were super worried about me! You know, I can kick anyone’s butt if they lay a finger on me!”

I really didn’t doubt that. Loopy was the type of girl to beat up everyone who harmed her family.

She told me about the regime which overthrew the royal family.

Loopy: “Y’know, apparently the dictator is suuuper pretty… But she’s super cruel too…”

MC: “Apparently? You mean you don’t know what she looks like?”

Loopy: “Nope. She always gets one of her spokespeople to show up on TV. She says its to ‘Protect her identity…’ or something.”

MC: “Hmm… Well I guess I don’t really blame her. Anyway, what happened to the royal family?”

[SPRITE: LOOPY SAD]

Loopy looked over to the wall. She seemed rather distant.

I could tell that the royal family went through something horrible. Loopy hated talking about violence, so I could see why she was struggling.

MC: “…I get it. Sorry for asking something like that.”

[SPRITE: LOOPY IDLE]

Loopy: “Don’t worry about it, Onii-chan! Anyway, that’s enough politics! You’re gonna stay here right?”

I nodded. I didn’t really have anywhere else to go, after all.

Loopy looked at me with a face which showed she was deep in thought.

Loopy: “Well… Daddy turned your room into a study.”
Loopy: “And the spare guest room got converted into a Chitantopia National Enrichment Center…”

… A what?…

[Sprite: Loopy smile]

Loopy: “I guess you could sleep in my room! I can lay out a spare duvet on the floor!”

My sister got up and walked over to the cupboard, pulling out a large duvet.

MC: “Hey, I could just crash on the couch or something, I really don’t mind.”
Loopy looked at me smugly.

Loopy: “Come on, Onii-chan! You’ve had a long journey, so you deserve a nice place to sleep!”

I sighed.

There was no point arguing with her now. Oh well…

Me and Loopy went up to her room, where she sprawled the duvet out onto the floor next to her bed. 

Her room was exactly the same as I remembered. Girly, with lots of plush toys. 

However, I noticed all of the boy band and anime posters she had were taken down.

When I asked her about it, she just told me this:

[sprite: Loopy frown]

Loopy: “Disgraceful bands and cartoons have no place in glorious Chitantopia…”

[Sprite Loopy happy]

The girl seemed pleased with herself as she lay out my bed on the floor, tossing a pillow and a blanket onto the hastily made futon.

She then let out a playful squeal as she jumped into it.

MC: “Hey, don’t mess it up! I’m supposed to sleep there!”

Loopy sat up and looked at me with a puzzled face.

[sprite loopy confused]

Loopy: “Huh? This is my futon. I’m giving you my bed, dummy!” 

She then tossed a plush toy at my face, which I threw back at her.

Loopy: “You’re so clueless sometimes. Didn’t I say you needed a nice place to rest?”
Loopy; I’m not gonna make you sleep on the floor!”

I couldn’t help but smile.

MC: “Come on, I’d feel bad if you slept on the floor.”

As much as I tried, my sister would keep shaking her head.

Loopy: “No no no! I’d feel bad if I made YOU sleep on the floor, Onii-chan!”

Our argument went back and forth for a while, just like old times.

I truly felt at home.

Loopy: “Alright, fine! How about we just both sleep on the bed?”

I looked at her, raising an eyebrow.

CHOICE (1)
"I doubt we could both fit.":
MC: "Is the bed really big enough for the two of us?"
Loopy: "Hey! I’m not fat, ok?! Besides, it’s bigger than it looks!"
"Ok fine.":
MC: "That sounds like a valid compromise…"
Loopy: "Hehe… I’m quite the problem solver!"

With a sigh, we shake hands and agree.

Loopy: “Anyway, you must be hungry! I’ll go and make dinner!”

[BG: KITCHEN]

I arrive at the kitchen with my sister, who bought out a plethora of different cans.

I pick one up and examine it.

‘CHITANTOPIA STATE PROVIDED BEEF’

MC: “W-what is this?!”
Loopy looked at me as she turned on the stove.

Loopy: “Oh right, we have state-provided ingredients now. We don’t have to go out grocery shopping anymore! Isn’t that cool?!”

I sigh and put the can back.

My sister had a very distorted view on what was handy, and what was borderline stupid.

It looked like there was a lot of things I just had to suck up and get used to here.

[BG: BEDROOM]

After a few hours of settling in, we sat in the bedroom to finally to catch up.

MC: “So, how’s school going?”

For some reason, my sister froze and looked towards the wall. She twirled a strand of her brown hair around her index finger.

Loopy: “Y-y’know… all going smoothly!”

It didn’t take a genius to see that things were not going smoothly.

MC: “Very funny. Come on, tell me your most recent test score…”

I wait for her reply, raising an eyebrow as she paused for a moment.

Loopy: “Uh… well…. oh, remember Tsuruya?!”

I stare at her.

Of course, this is a lousy attempt to change the subject. But I was curious.

But I wasn’t going to allow her to weasel her way out of that.
"Test answers. Now.":
MC: "Hey, you aren’t gonna get away that easily."

Loopy looks at me angrily, before rolling her eyes. 

She then gets up off the bed, and begins rummaging around in her schoolbag.

After a few seconds, she pulls out a piece of scrumpled up paper and tosses it towards me.
Loopy: "Jeez… you sound just like Mom…"

With a sigh, she sat back down on the bed.

Loopy: “Well… go ahead and scold me…”

I stared at the sheet of paper in front of me.

She got a grand total of… 14%

MC: “Care to explain?”

Loopy: “S-Shut up! I was busy doing stuff.”

I give her a stern look.

Loopy: “Well, I was going to tell you! If you just let me finish talking about Tsuruya…”

I sigh, rolling my eyes.
MC: "Yeah… so what did you want to tell me about her?”

Tsuruya was a friend of ours. We knew her ever since the two of us were kids.

I completely forgot to ask about her. She stopped contacting me ever since I moved out, and Loopy didn’t tell me much about her in her letters, either.

Loopy looked at me, fidgeting with her fingers.

Loopy: “Well… she isn’t the same as she used to be. I had to look after her, and I didn’t get enough time to study!”

I sighed once again,

MC: “What do you mean? What happened to her?”

Loopy glanced at me, before bringing her knees up to her chin. A gloomy expression replaced her usual cheery one. I guess even my energetic sister could be pretty down at times…

Loopy: “Well, she dropped out of school soon after you left.”

Loopy: “She sits at home all day. I have to bring her food and check up on her. You should see her room, it’s filled with garbage!”

I was confused. Sure, Tsuruya had always been pretty antisocial, but this was pretty extreme.

MC: “I see… maybe I’ll have to check up on her while I’m here.”

Loopy looked up at me, that signature glint in her eyes.

Loopy: “Yes, that would be a great idea! I’m sure she’ll be so happy to see you!”

I smirk at my sister.

MC: “And your test scores will start to go up, right?”

Loopy paused, before blushing adorably.

Loopy: “O-of course! Don’t underestimate the mighty Loopy! I can do anything when I put my head into it!”

I chuckle and ruffle her hair, just like old times.

MC: “It’s getting pretty late, huh? How about we go to sleep?”

Loopy nodded, giving me a warm smile as she patted down her pyjamas.

I watched as she walked over to the light, flicking it off before jumping into the bed with me.

It was pretty cold in Chitantopia, nothing like the warm weather I was used to back in RVDS.

But sleeping in this bed with my sister… 

It was a familiar warmth I hadn’t felt in a while.

Loopy: “Mhhhmmm…. Onii-chan…”

I slowly open my eyes.

I can feel something tugging at my shirt.

MC: “Huh… what’s going on?…”

I rub my eyes and slowly blinked the sleep away.

The room was dead quiet, but soon I could hear screams coming from outside.

Woman from outside: “No! You can’t do this! I haven’t-”

I froze as the screaming was cut off by a gunshot.

What the hell was going on out there?

I slowly sat up, preparing myself to look out of the window.

As I lifted my head, I could feel my sister’s hands tug at my arm, pulling me back into the bed.

Loopy: “Onii-chan… Don’t go. Stay here with me.”

I glanced at my sister. It was hard to tell if she was half asleep or not.

One thing was for sure though, she didn’t want me to leave her alone…

I sighed and climbed back into bed, my mind racing about what happened outside.

I tried going back to sleep, but I was now wide awake.

Loopy clutched my shirt, and I could feel her gentle breaths against my face. 

I stare up at the ceiling, waiting for the hours to go by.

This place has really changed… I guess the first thing to do tomorrow was meet up with Tsuruya…